# .NET framework, .NET core , and .NET

Today I studied .NET framework, .NET core , and .NET

### Software framework

- Flynn's Taxonomy
  - SIMD (Single instruction stream, multiple data streams.)</br></br>

- blittable type is a data type that does not require special attention from the interop marshaler because by default it has a common representation in managed and unmanaged memory.</br></br>

- ​Interop marshalling governs how data is passed in method arguments and return values between managed and unmanaged memory during calls. Interop marshalling is a run-time activity performed by the common language runtime's marshalling service(Serialization).</br></br>

- ​.NET Framework : Oldest framework. .NET Framework is the Common Language Runtime (CLR), which provides these runtime features. .NET Framework is a software development framework for building and running applications on Windows. It doesn't work on linux or mac.</br></br>

- ​.NET Core: .NET Core is a new version of .NET Framework, which is a free, open-source, general-purpose development platform maintained by Microsoft. It is a cross-platform framework that runs on Windows, macOS, and Linux operating systems..NET Core Framework can be used to build different types of applications such as mobile, desktop, web, cloud, IoT, machine learning, microservices, game, etc.
   - Keywords: Developed for cloud environment. Silverlight (the first .net core runtime), work on mac and linux too.   
   - Tiered Compilation (.NET Core 2.1~): The Tiered Compilation feature changes the premise by allowing .NET to have multiple compilations for the same method that can be hot-swapped at runtime. This separates the decision making so that we can pick a technique that is best for startup, pick a second technique that is best for steady-state and then deliver great performance on both.
   - Stack allocation API (Span) (https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/archive/msdn-magazine/2018/january/csharp-all-about-span-exploring-a-new-net-mainstay)
   - Vectorization API:(https://kunalspathak.github.io/2020-08-01-Vectorization-APIs/)
   - GC Pinned Object Heap (.NET 5): When performing socket communication in .NET, the transferred buffer is pinned at runtime, causing memory fragmentation. To solve this, a new heap called POH (Pinned Object Heap) has been created since .Net 5.0. This limited to allocate only blittable types via GC.AllocateArray. Space for allocating data to communicate with native code.(https://tooslowexception.com/pinned-object-heap-in-net-5/)

   - GC Regions Support (.NET 6)(https://github.com/dotnet/runtime/issues/43844)
   - Managed ThreadPool (.NET 6)(https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/standard/threading/the-managed-thread-pool)</br></br>


- ​.NET (.NET core 3.1~)
  - Cloud/Server -> .NET Core 
  - Mobile app/Blazor web -> ​Mono/Xamarin </br></br>

-----------------
###  web application framework

- Webforms->(ASP).NET MVC->(ASP).NET Core(2016)

- .NET Core is a runtime. It can execute applications that are built for it.

- ASP.NET Core: Open-source web framework, Fast compare to web form or .net MVC
- ASP.NET Core is a collection of libraries that form a Framework for building web applications.
  - Cross platform
  - built in dependency injection
  - easy updates
  - cloud friendly
  